Hello, and thank you for joining us!
What can we look forward to
in this month’s broadcast?
We’ll hear from two young people
who chose to live
by God’s moral standards
even when their resolve
was seriously challenged by temptation.
A new music video
celebrates the ways
that God’s people demonstrate
their unity and express their love
for one another.
And we’ll see how one brother learned
that a life centered on Jehovah
is the key to true happiness.
Welcome to JW Broadcasting®.
This is the program for July 2023.
The evening before he died,
Jesus Christ asked his Father in prayer
to watch over his disciples.
His request is recorded at John 17:15-17.
Read it with me.
Jesus said: “I do not request
“that you take them out of the world,
“but that you watch over them
“because of the wicked one.
“They are no part of the world,
just as I am no part of the world.”
Jesus’ confidence in Jehovah
and in the power of the truth
can be seen clearly
in what he asks of his Father in verse 17:
“Sanctify them by means of the truth;
your word is truth.”
When we accept the truth
and make a personal dedication to God,
in a general sense,
we are sanctified,
or set apart, from the world
because we no longer fit into its mold.
People view us differently
because our values have changed.
We live by the standards of Bible truth,
and doing so honors Jehovah God,
gives our life meaning,
and brings us great happiness.
With those thoughts in mind,
how should we feel about the sayings of God
and the Bible truths that we have learned?
We feel the way the psalmist did.
At Psalm 119:140,
he said to Jehovah God:
“Your saying is thoroughly refined
“[which means that it’s clean and pure;
and then he said],
and your servant loves it.”
Isn’t that how we feel about the truth?
We love it!
It would be wonderful if everyone
would respond to the truth of God’s Word
and love it.
However, the sad fact is
that the majority of the world rejects it.
There are many people
who do not believe that truth is attainable.
Some ancient philosophers
made the teaching of doubts
virtually their life’s work.
Human philosophy
is built on pride of intellect
and a warped pleasure of endless speculation
that leaves Jehovah God, the Creator,
completely out of the picture.
By removing God,
philosophers wander
in a maze of ideas and theories
that fascinate the mind and inflate the ego
but never arrive at the truth.
If truth were not attainable,
why would Jesus Christ say
as recorded at John 8:31, 32:
“If you remain in my word,
“you are really my disciples,
“and you will know the truth,
and the truth will set you free”?
Are we not experiencing
the freedom that Jesus spoke of?
And why would the apostle Paul write
at 1 Timothy 2:4
that God’s “will is that all sorts of people
should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth”?
Why does the word “truth” occur
over a hundred times
in the Christian Greek Scriptures?
Jesus not only pointed out
that the truth is attainable,
but he showed that finding it is required
if our worship is to be approved by God.
When a Samaritan woman wondered
what the true form of worship was
—the worship practiced
by the Jews in Jerusalem
or that practiced
by the Samaritans on Mount Gerizim—
Jesus did not answer by saying:
‘Truth is unattainable,
and you don’t need to worry about it,’
or ‘You can believe
whatever you want to believe.’
No, Jesus did not view the truth as relative
—that whatever you want to believe
is the truth.
That is nonsense
and has nothing to do
with the realities of life.
At John 4:23, 24,
Jesus made a specific reference to truth,
God’s spirit, and pure worship.
At John 4:23, 24, he said:
“True worshippers
“will worship the Father
with spirit and truth,
“for indeed, the Father is looking
for ones like these
“to worship him.
“God is a Spirit, and those worshipping him
must worship with spirit and truth.”
Jesus was talking about
being guided in our worship
by God’s holy spirit
and said that we do not need
the use of temples, images,
or other physical objects in true worship.
And the truth that Jesus referred to
is an accurate knowledge of Bible truths.
True faith is much more
than just belief in God
—that he exists;
it also means an acceptance of God’s Word,
obtaining an intellectual understanding
of that Word,
and then manifesting
a heartfelt reliance upon it.
As genuine Christians,
we view the Bible
as the inspired Word of God,
beneficial for teaching
and disciplining mankind.
Psalm 119:160 says of Jehovah God:
“The very essence of your word is truth.”
When Jesus Christ stood before Pontius Pilate
and told him that he had come to earth
to speak the truth,
Pilate responded with the words:
“What is truth?”
Likely, Pilate was cynical.
His words reveal a skeptical view of truth.
But the truth that Jesus had in mind
was about God’s Kingdom
and Jesus’ role as its King.
That was the very theme, the core,
of Jesus’ teaching while he was on earth.
That’s why when Pilate asked Jesus
if he was a king,
Jesus replied:
“You yourself say it.”
In other words, ‘Yes, I am,’
but he added that his Kingdom
was “no part of this world.”
The truth is that his Kingdom
will sanctify Jehovah’s name,
vindicate his sovereignty,
and restore faithful mankind
to happy, eternal life.
Genuine Christians embrace this truth.
Since Jesus’ role in the fulfillment
of all of God’s promises is so pivotal
and since all of God’s prophecies
become “Amen,” or true, because of him,
Jesus could well say,
as recorded at John 14:6:
“I am the way and the truth and the life.”
And as 2 Corinthians 1:20 declares:
“For no matter how many
the promises of God are,
“they have become ‘yes’ by means of him.
“Therefore, also through him
is the ‘Amen’ said to God.”
Jesus used the word “amen”
to affirm the truthfulness of what was said,
but he did so in a unique way.
We usually say “amen” after a prayer is said
to show our agreement with it.
However, rather than use it
to reply to a prayer or a statement,
he used “amen”
to introduce pronouncements of truth.
At times, he repeated the word,
saying “amen, amen”
and then made his statement,
which would be like saying
“most truly I say to you.”
Yes, by using this expression,
he assured his listeners
that his words were the absolute truth.
Jesus could speak with such certainty
because he was the one authorized
to make all of God’s promises come true.
To us, the exhilarating
good news of God’s Kingdom
under the rulership of Jesus Christ
is more, far more, than mere information.
That truth moves us to action;
it compels us to live by it
and share it with others.
To the first-century Christian congregation,
the way of life they adopted
as followers of Christ
was sometimes known simply as “the truth”
or “the way of the truth.”
Read with me 3 John verse 4, where it says:
“No greater joy do I have than this:
“that I should hear that my children
go on walking in the truth.”
Isn’t that how parents feel
about their children
who are serving Jehovah faithfully?
Absolutely!
However, not all young ones
raised in a believing household
have stuck with the truth.
The same is true about many
with whom we’ve studied the Bible.
Is their situation hopeless?
No, not at all.
There’s still time for them to act
and to show Jehovah that they love him
and that they love the truth.
The end of this system is fast approaching.
It is going to happen and soon.
We encourage such ones
to give serious thought
to their relationship with Jehovah God,
because he genuinely loves them
and wants them to have life.
We pray that such ones
take whatever steps are necessary
to return to Jehovah before it’s too late.
It’s a Scriptural fact
that people need to love the truth
in order to be saved.
This is the point that the apostle Paul makes
at 2 Thessalonians 2:10,
where it reads in part
that people will perish
“because they did not accept
the love of the truth
in order that they might be saved.”
Our prayer is
that honesthearted people everywhere
will respond to Jehovah’s invitation
to draw close to him and love the truth.
This world is heading for an abrupt end
at the battle of Armageddon.
To survive that battle,
we must have knowledge of Jehovah God
and live in harmony with his Word,
which includes the teachings of Jesus Christ.
Earth wide we are proclaiming the good news
that God’s Kingdom
has been established in the heavens.
That proclamation
is the foretold “witness to all the nations”
that soon the accomplished end
of this world’s system will come.
No, no, not the end of our planet,
because another basic truth
is that “the earth remains forever”
as stated at Ecclesiastes 1:4.
These are absolute truths that we preach,
and we love them.
Knowing the truth sets us free from lies,
delusions, and superstitions.
And when we live by it,
the truth strengthens us to endure hardships.
God’s truth is so reliable and well-founded,
and it so inspires us with hope
that it enables us
to stand up under any test.
We see our brothers in lands
where they are mistreated and persecuted
doing just that,
and they do it with joy.
To dismiss truth as relative or nonexistent
is to miss out on the most thrilling
and fulfilling quest that life offers.
To find the truth is to find hope;
to know and love it is to know and love
the Creator of the universe
and his only-begotten Son;
to live by it is to live with purpose
and peace of mind,
now and forever.
There’s no question
that when we live the truth,
we stand out as different
from the world around us.
That’s not easy for any of us.
But if you’re a teenager,
it’s especially hard.
Young ones, we know your faith
is tested every day.
Your peers question your belief in God,
look down on Bible teachings,
and make fun of your lifestyle.
For your faith to remain strong,
it’s not enough
simply to believe what you’ve been taught.
You need solid reasons for what you believe.
That’s why we’re pleased to introduce
a brand-new video series just for you
called Reasons for Faith.
In each episode, young Witnesses like you
talk about why they have faith
and how they keep it strong in a world
that has little or no respect for God’s Word.
Why was it difficult to uphold
God’s moral standards at school?
I remember that in high school
it was complicated
because my classmates made fun of me.
They often said I acted holier-than-thou
and other similar insults
because I didn’t go to nightclubs,
I didn’t curse, I didn’t smoke.
It was unbearable because they
often tried to push me to the limit.
I had a one-hour bus ride
to get to high school,
and I wanted the bus to make a U-turn
and avoid going to high school.
I had all the time to think
of what could happen to me
and what they could say to me,
and I admit that I sometimes felt alone.
The environment at school
often exposed me to immorality.
For example, girls would wear short skirts.
I received instant messages
from people I had never met before.
They would send me photos,
a phone number, or invitations
that I could have just simply accepted.
So I could have easily committed
sexual immorality.
Sometimes I felt like
I was missing out on something important
when I heard my classmates
talking about what they were doing
on their evenings and weekends
and about drinking alcohol
and new drugs they were trying
or girls they had slept with.
I started to become curious.
What did you do to strengthen your faith?
During family worship with my parents,
we studied the example of Daniel.
Far from his family
among people that didn’t serve Jehovah,
he succeeded in remaining faithful,
and I wanted to do the same.
To strengthen my faith,
I started reading the Bible.
I had to take the metro to get to school,
so every morning I took the opportunity
to read a few verses.
I thought about the verses I had read.
By praying to Jehovah,
having a kind of
constant conversation with him,
Jehovah would put me in a little bubble.
I started feeling comfortable inside,
and I was no longer
under the bad influence of others.
And the fact that I prayed more
also made me feel closer to Jehovah.
It was a bit like Psalm 63:7,
which describes how Jehovah shelters us
under his immense wings.
Well, that’s exactly how I felt.
Prayer allowed me to face any temptation.
Why do you believe
that Jehovah’s standards are beneficial?
I closely observed
the young ones in the world,
and I realized that they are suffering
from the standards they follow.
I closely stick to the moral standards
that Jehovah has given me.
I’m aware that they are there for my benefit,
because with the experiences
I’ve had in school,
I’ve observed the painful consequences
that my classmates have suffered.
Some got into trouble with the law
or got sick.
They’ve had health problems
caused by their lifestyle.
A girl in school
did something immoral with a boy,
and it started circulating around the school.
Because of that,
the girl didn’t come to school anymore,
and she started having suicidal thoughts.
I understood that Jehovah protects us
with his principles, his standards.
And if I had compromised
even once with his standards,
I would have regretted it sooner or later.
And for me,
there is nothing worse than regret.
I’m 100 percent sure that Jehovah gave me
these moral principles for my own good
so that I could be morally clean.
He also helps me to be positive.
For example, he helped me
to see my classmates
as potential disciples,
and we were able to have conversations
about the Bible together.
I am really convinced
that Jehovah’s standards are good for me.
Being one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
is the best life possible.
What gave Clara and Hugo the courage
to live by God’s standards
when under pressure that, as Clara said,
‘was sometimes unbearable’?
You heard them.
They are absolutely convinced
that Jehovah’s standards
are for their own good.
Is that how you feel?
Why not follow their advice
and dig deeply into God’s Word
to strengthen your confidence in it
and pray to Jehovah for his help
when you face those same pressures?
Real faith has the power
to improve people’s lives
in ways they couldn’t have imagined
before learning the truth.
Take our brother Jason Worilds.
He learned that what the world offers
pales in comparison
to what Jehovah freely gives us.
News overnight
—Steelers’ linebacker Jason Worilds
is walking away from the NFL
in the prime of his NFL career.
Worilds is or has been with the Steelers
for five seasons and started in all 16 games.
He’s just walking away
from tens of millions of dollars.
What is he going to do
for the rest of his life?
No clue, but it better be worth it.
My name is Jason Worilds,
and I’m one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
My mom is a beautiful woman.
It was in her early 20’s
that she was introduced to the Witnesses,
and she started a study,
and six months later
she was baptized.
So my mom put the truth before us growing up,
but I didn’t see the true value
of what it was that I had.
I didn’t know how true the truth was.
It’s vital that you set spiritual goals.
If you don’t, the reality is
that someone is going to set a goal for you,
and I think that’s what was true in my case.
I started playing American football
my freshman year of high school.
One of my coaches sat me down and said,
“You can potentially go to college
on a full scholarship.”
I did everything to succeed at football,
and so the dedication—it escalates.
I studied the Bible for several years,
but by the time
that I started to make progress in my study,
I was being courted by the NFL.
I was whole-souled to football.
And so I pursued
my professional career.
When I was drafted, it was what I
had been working toward for so many years.
That first year, it was chaotic,
but then in my second year,
I got to a point in my life
where everything was unstable.
I felt that the things
that I was pursuing were fruitless.
I just felt hollow inside, right?
I felt like if you shook me, I would rattle.
I saw those who had more money,
more success,
and they weren’t happy.
That was one of the motivating factors
for me to say: ‘You know what?
‘There has to be something more.
‘There has to be,
because I’m at the precipice
‘of what I’ve always wanted,
‘and the only thing that I can see
is more angst,
more headache, more strife.’
There was nothing there
that was going to bring lasting happiness,
and I think that is what motivated me
to want to see what’s in this Bible.
And so I reached out, and I picked up a study
with a local brother there in Pittsburgh.
For a time, I felt like:
‘Man, I can do both of these.
I’ve got my craft here, and I’m enjoying it,
and then I have Jehovah.’
As a defender in football,
there are certain things that you dream of.
During one game,
I had one of those opportunities,
but I didn’t put everything into it
the way that I always dreamed
of myself doing.
I let up.
The person that I was on the inside
was changing.
That night
I sat thinking:
‘You’re not in the environment
that’s conducive to you
‘continuing to grow as a spiritual person.
You might need to make some changes.’
And that night is when I realized:
‘Hey, you know what?
‘Yeah, I don’t need this.
Why are you here?
What are you doing?’
The reality is that I loved playing football.
I enjoyed it,
but it didn’t bring true happiness.
I retired at a time when I was going
to take the next step with my career.
And so the offers that were on the table were
tens of millions of dollars,
and that wasn’t what I wanted to do.
So once I let them know that,
then the offers increased.
But that wasn’t what I wanted.
I wanted to make the truth my own
and get into the full-time ministry.
I was baptized September 13, 2015.
That day was so special
because Jehovah completely welcomed me
into his spiritual family.
I’ve become a better friend.
I’ve become a better brother.
I’ve become a better son.
There are nothing but wins
when you serve Jehovah.
The joy, the happiness,
that I receive now
and why I just rejoice
to be out in the ministry
is because you have an opportunity
to actually affect change in someone’s life
and make them a better person
and give them purpose
and have them have
this same warm relationship with Jehovah
that you have.
It’s unparalleled.
That’s the fact.
The more that we center
our lives around Jehovah,
the happier we will be.
That’s where my happiness comes from.
As Brother Worilds said,
‘The more we center our life on Jehovah,
the happier we will be.’
To many, it seemed he gave up so much
—fame, wealth, and professional recognition.
But in reality,
he discovered
what was truly valuable:
the good news of truth.
No wonder he was determined
to make it his life’s work.
We are happy that Jason
has been serving
as a member
of the United States Bethel family
since 2017.
Our love for the truth motivates us
not only to uphold God’s standards
but also to share the truth with others.
When you find someone in the ministry
who shows interest,
are you excited to go back?
Or does heading to that return visit
make you a little uneasy?
If you’d like to be more effective
at making return visits,
pay close attention to this next episode
of Iron Sharpens Iron.
Hi, I’m Marcelo,
and this is “Iron Sharpens Iron.”
So we’ve made the initial call,
and it went really well.
We were able to share a scripture,
we had a nice conversation,
and we even left the person with a question.
But then we have to make what
for some brothers and sisters
is somewhat difficult:
the dreaded return visit.
But why do some of us feel that way?
Well, we might worry, thinking:
‘I tried to return quickly,
but they weren’t there,
‘so will they even remember me?
‘Will they still be interested?
Will they ask me a question
I’m not prepared for?’
All of these might be legitimate concerns,
but we need to remember
that our goal at this moment
is just to continue a conversation.
It’s better to focus on what we do know.
This person has already shown interest.
Remembering that
can help minimize uneasiness.
But let’s also look at three practical steps
that give us the best chance
for a successful return visit.
The first step is to be warm and friendly.
So focus on just getting yourself relaxed.
That way you can be warm and friendly
when you greet them.
It’s natural for some of us
to feel a measure of anxiety
conversing with someone we don’t know well.
But if we’ve prepared well ahead of time,
we can now take a deep breath,
focus on the value of the message, and smile.
This can help us to relax,
and often our smile is contagious.
I’m Laura.
The last time I was here,
we talked about who controls the world.
Yes, I remember.
You even showed me it is the Devil, right?
Yeah, that’s right.
If you have a few minutes,
I want to answer the question
that I left with you last time:
Why does God allow suffering?
Did you notice how she
didn’t put the householder on the spot?
She reminded the woman of her name
and also of the topic they had discussed
on the initial call.
Now she can continue her discussion
right where she left off.
Why does God allow suffering?
I’m kind of busy right now,
but do you mind if I ask you a question?
Now, this is the moment
we sometimes fear most.
We plan to continue the discussion,
but the householder has
an unexpected question.
So here’s one approach that works well
if we would like to have more time
to prepare a response.
I’d like to know if the Bible says anything
about gay marriage.
You know, that’s a really good question.
Well, in a way it does talk about that.
But would it be OK with you
if I answered this other question first?
Then I can do some research
and find the best possible scriptures
to be able to answer your question
the next time that I come.
Does that sound OK?
Sure, that’s fine.
Did you see how our sister
just gave an honest response?
We can simply ask if it would be OK
to continue our current discussion
so we can do some research
and return with a better answer.
Most householders will appreciate that.
But if the question isn’t too difficult
or if we feel comfortable
giving our response,
that’s fine.
We can always adapt.
The idea is to try to continue our discussion
but, if necessary, we can always adjust it.
And here’s our last tip:
Leave them wanting more.
Make sure to keep our visit brief
and leave them wanting more.
What approach can we use?
Set up a question for the next visit.
Huh, that’s interesting.
So this thought leads us to another question.
If God allows suffering to happen,
when will he put an end to it?
That’s a good question.
But since I mentioned I would be brief,
could I maybe come back Saturday?
Then I can answer this question
and also the other one you asked.
Yeah, that would be great.
There it is!
Three easy steps
that can help us be more comfortable
and also help us make
successful return visits:
Be warm and friendly,
continue our discussion,
and leave them wanting more.
I know these tips have helped me,
and I sure hope they help you
as we work together to sharpen one another.
What do you think?
Do the steps outlined by Brother Coelho
make return visits feel
a little less intimidating?
That’s our hope,
because we don’t want to hold back
from returning to any of those
who’ve shown interest.
They need the accurate knowledge
that we’ve been so well-trained to give them.
Our love for the truth
also impels us
to help our fellow worshippers.
Sometimes we do so
by giving corrective counsel.
How should we do it?
Brother Splane shares
some valuable advice along those lines
in the following morning worship.
Well, God’s Word is so rich.
There’s so much in it,
and Galatians 6:1 is no exception.
So, please, let’s turn there,
and we’re going to read the whole thing.
And then we’re going to analyze
Galatians 6:1 phrase by phrase;
there’s a lot in this one verse.
So at Galatians 6:1,
Paul writes:
“Brothers, even if a man
takes a false step
“before he is aware of it,
“you who have spiritual qualifications
“try to readjust such a man
in a spirit of mildness.
“But keep an eye on yourself,
for fear you too may be tempted.”
Now, the first word is “brothers.”
And we notice that that is in the plural.
That may be significant, and we’re going to
come back to that in a few minutes.
Now, Paul says:
“even if a man takes a false step.”
So, what’s the metaphor here?
What is Paul thinking about?
Walking.
He sees a man who is walking down a path.
And all of a sudden, he “takes a false step.”
Now, come to think of it,
this isn’t the first time
that Paul mentions walking
in his letter to the Galatians.
Cast your eye on chapter 5,
and notice verse 16:
“But I say, Keep walking by spirit
and you will carry out
no fleshly desire at all”;
and again, verse 18:
“Furthermore, if you are being led by spirit,
you are not under law”;
and once again, verse 25:
“If we are living by spirit,
let us also go on
walking orderly by spirit”
—literally walking in a straight line;
and then at chapter 6, verse 1:
“brothers, even if a man takes a false step.”
So Paul sees a Christian
who is walking along,
walking in a straight line,
but all of a sudden, he takes a false step.
Question: Is one false step so serious?
Well, those of us who have tried
to walk down
the uneven pavement
on Columbia Heights
and have taken a false step
as we stepped off the curb
and wrenched something
or put something out,
we can testify
that one false step can be serious.
And what about you young brothers,
you basketball players?
You know that sometimes
when you’re on the basketball court,
you take one false step
and you end up on crutches for a few weeks.
So the fact is that one false step
can be serious and, interestingly,
the Greek word
that’s translated “false step” here
allows for a variety of meanings.
It can apply to a minor infraction,
but it can also apply
to a major transgression
—a major sin.
And you’ll notice in the comment today
when we read it
that Galatians 6:1
is being applied to a serious sin.
So it can be applied to both.
Let’s carry on.
He “takes a false step
before he is aware of it.”
Now, what does that mean?
Well, the Greek word here
indicates that the sin is not deliberate.
He didn’t leave home that day with the idea
that he was going to commit a serious sin.
It came upon him unawares.
He was surprised.
Perhaps he got into the wrong crowd,
and all of a sudden,
he ended up doing something
that he really hadn’t planned to do.
It is not deliberate,
but that doesn’t mean
that the sin isn’t serious.
It just means that it was not intentional.
Now, here’s help; help is on the way.
It says: “you who have
spiritual qualifications.”
Well, come to think of it,
the Galatians would know what these are
because at chapter 5, verses 22, 23,
the apostle Paul outlined
the nine aspects
of “the fruitage of the spirit,”
so they would know
what the spiritual qualifications are.
But here’s the point,
as Brother Devine brought out:
Those who give counsel
need to be motivated by the holy spirit,
not by frustration, not by anger.
This is no knee-jerk reaction,
a flash of anger or something.
No, the holy spirit
has to move us to give the counsel.
Now, the next word is interesting.
It says: “You who have
spiritual qualifications try”
—“try.”
Now, you won’t find that word in many Bibles.
I think there’s only one other
besides the New World Translation
that says “try.”
Most of the Bible translations
follow the King James Version.
And the King James Version  says:
‘You who are spiritual restore the man.’
Now, the Greek allows for both.
It allows for an attempt,
or it can be a direct action.
So, now, the translators have to choose.
The original New World Bible
Translation Committee chose “try.”
Why?
Well, they realized that
while there would be an attempt to readjust,
the outcome would depend
on the person who was being readjusted.
Would he really want to change?
Maybe it would be successful,
and maybe it wouldn’t.
And perhaps because Jehovah’s Witnesses
probably do more in giving counsel
and giving help to people than anyone else,
the translation committee
saw the subtlety
at Galatians 6:1.
Well, now, we have a man walking along.
He takes a false step.
What can happen when you take a false step?
You may dislocate a bone.
And that brings us to the word “readjust.”
He says: “Try to readjust such a man.”
Now, you probably know
that the word is a medical term
for setting a fractured bone in place.
So it works really well
with the metaphor, doesn’t it?
You’re walking along, you take a false step,
something gets out of joint,
and now you have to be readjusted.
The bone has to be set in place.
And now we come to
what Brother Devine was talking about:
“in a spirit of mildness.”
And that’s good advice
because sometimes the elders are called upon
to counsel someone who has done something
that they find disgusting
and their emotions could get involved.
They may feel like giving the person
a good tongue-lashing,
but they don’t.
They pray for holy spirit.
And what’s one of the aspects
of the holy spirit?
Mildness.
They pray for a spirit of mildness.
After all, if the person
did something that bad,
he’s probably thoroughly ashamed of himself,
and it may have taken every ounce of courage
that that person has
just to come to the elders.
So we deal with the person in kindness.
So it says: “a spirit of mildness.”
And then the next phrase is:
“But keep an eye on yourself”
—“yourself.”
Wait a minute, that’s singular, isn’t it?
Didn’t we say that
at the beginning of verse 1,
Paul addressed his “brothers”—plural?
But now he is addressing
each and every person
who was called upon to give counsel.
Paul says: “Keep an eye on yourself.”
Now, this calls for a self-examination.
I’m sure that many of us feel very similarly
to the comment that was given this morning.
Many of us who have given counsel for years
can look back with regret at times
—at times when we should have been
more kind, more mild, in giving counsel.
And so it’s good for us to undertake
a self-examination from time to time.
‘How am I coming across in the counsel
that I’m giving to others?’
By using the singular,
Paul is talking to each and every one of us.
If you are an elder,
Paul is talking to you
and Paul is talking to me,
and he’s saying: “Examine yourself.
Examine how your counsel is coming across.”
The final phrase is
“for fear you too may be tempted.”
Now, what does Paul mean by that?
Is he saying that if you hear the details
of what the person has done,
you may want to do the same thing?
No, what he’s reminding us of
is that we are all imperfect.
Paul is saying to us:
“Don’t get on your high horse.
“Don’t be self-righteous
when you’re giving counsel to others.
“Remember, you are imperfect.
“And one day, you could be sitting
on the other side of the table
and receiving counsel.”
And if that were the case,
how would you like to be treated?
In a spirit of mildness.
Keeping our own limitations in mind
will help us to moderate our tone,
to speak to the offender
in a spirit of mildness.
So let’s reread Galatians 6:1:
“Brothers,
“even if a man takes a false step
“before he is aware of it,
“you who have spiritual qualifications
“try to readjust such a man
“in a spirit of mildness.
“But keep an eye on yourself,
for fear you too may be tempted.”
Well, what can we take away
from this brief discussion?
If we can just remember
that counsel must be given in mildness
by those who are moved by holy spirit,
this discussion will have been worth having.
What practical advice!
If we need to provide corrective counsel,
we must do so with a spirit of mildness.
We talked earlier
about how truth moves us to action.
It also unites us.
Jehovah’s people
speak hundreds of languages
and come from almost every imaginable
culture and background,
yet we enjoy a peace that is viewed by many
as a modern-day miracle.
That’s what this month’s music video
is all about.
It’s called When All Hearts Sing as One.
Earth cries out ev’ry day.
So many have lost their way.
Wars never cease; fighting for peace,
Man cannot find the answers.
Through all these stormy seas
And empty philosophies,
Jehovah provides a hope for mankind,
A world we’re longing to see:
One faith, one God,
Peace on earth,
One mind, one voice
Throughout the universe
When all hearts sing as one.
Know that this hope is sure
Despite what we might endure.
Jehovah is there and lovingly shares
Peace that flows like a river,
Calming our doubts and fears,
Drying up ev’ry tear.
Forever we’ll find true peace of mind,
Knowing soon we will see:
One faith, one God,
Peace on earth,
One mind, one voice
Throughout the universe
When all hearts sing as one.
Under the Prince of Peace,
Freedom will never end.
When sorrow is gone
and death is undone,
Every knee will bend
To Jehovah, our King.
One faith, one God,
Peace on earth,
One mind, one voice
Throughout the universe—
One faith, one God,
Peace on earth,
One mind, one voice
Throughout the universe
When all hearts sing as one,
God’s will on earth is done!
Among Jehovah’s Witnesses,
unity isn’t just an ideal.
It’s a reality!
Whether we’re gathering at a convention
or helping each other in a crisis,
our love and unity are so clear to see.
And just imagine what it will be like
when God’s will for the earth
is fully accomplished
and we’ll be at unity
with literally everyone on earth.
In this program,
we’ve seen how important it is
for our love for the truth
to permeate our lives.
That love moves us to hold to God’s standards
and make them our own,
to help interested ones
by making effective return visits,
and to remain united at all times.
When you hear the word “paradise,”
what do you think of?
For many, it might bring to mind
the tropical beauty found in Fiji
—the location
for this month’s video postcard.
Fiji is made up
of more than 300 islands
in the South Pacific Ocean,
about 100 of which are inhabited.
On those islands
you’ll find lush rain forests,
dry grasslands,
and pristine lagoons ringed by coral reefs.
If you travel inland,
the terrain is steep and rugged,
with peaks over 1,300 meters high.
That’s more than 4,200 feet.
In this beautiful setting,
there are 3,186 publishers
preaching the good news
to nearly one million people.
On the small island of Koro,
which lies between Fiji’s two main islands,
our brothers cover
much of the territory on foot.
To reach some outlying areas,
they may hire a truck,
allowing older and younger ones
to travel to different villages
to have a share in the ministry.
When they’re not in the ministry,
many in the congregation
support their families through farming.
Others engage
in the traditional Fijian art
of mat making.
The mats are woven from the long,
narrow leaves of the pandanus,
a tree native to the tropics.
The leaves are dried,
dyed by burying them in the mud,
and then softened for weaving.
Selling the mats
helps many families
pay for travel to circuit assemblies
and regional conventions.
That trip involves a 12-hour boat ride
over notoriously rough seas
to Viti Levu,
Fiji’s largest island.
Back in 2016,
Cyclone Winston ravaged Fiji.
At the time,
it was the most powerful storm
ever recorded
in the Southern Hemisphere.
In the small village of Naqaidamu,
most of the homes were virtually flattened
and our brothers and sisters
lost almost everything they had.
The only building that survived
was the Kingdom Hall.
But a village chief,
aware of the Witnesses’ good reputation,
granted them a block of land
right around the Kingdom Hall
to rebuild all their homes.
Local brothers worked
with disaster relief volunteers
to build 14 new homes
to house the entire congregation.
The Kingdom Hall at Naqaidamu
is entirely solar powered,
and the local brothers
make good use of technology at the meetings
and in the field.
The 38 publishers
of the Naqaidamu Fijian Congregation
would like to pass on their loloma
—that’s Fijian for love—
to all in their spiritual family.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.